welcome back again everyone Laszlo
Montgomery here China history podcast
episode 2 - one part for this little
overview covering the history of Tung
poetry I'm sure you're all relieved that
finally last episode we got to the tong
poetry portion of the series well it's
all tang dynasty from here on out and
this is the episode where we will dive a
little deeper into that part of the Tong
dynasty that stood head and shoulders
above the rest
not since tight song and gout song at
the start of the dynasty to China have
it so good
once again the Middle Kingdom and the -
splendid capitals of China on and Law
Young were arguably the most amazing
places on the planet
elsewhere contemporaneous with these hai
Tong times you had the Umayyad empire at
its peak the start of the Abbasid
Caliphate the Nara period in Japan
Charles Martel and
his progeny in Europe the Mayans and
Honduras and Guatemala a century lot
happening in the world emperor xuanzong
and his reign from 712 to 756 China had
one of its many finest hours during all
those millennia of history an emperor
Shen song like the musical king joseph
ii would during the second half of the
18th century in europe held court to all
the most talented writers and artists
and all of china and who came to china
as well he was at the center of it all
and fat with all the riches flowing back
and forth along the Silk Roads and from
up and down the Grand Canal Tung
Shenzhen was extravagant in his
generosity as a benefactor to all men
and women of talent and all the Arts and
as much as Tung poetry was concerned
this was the age that produced the
greatest and most revered and beloved
poets in Chinese history I thought
between now and the final buzzer we
could survey some of these greats and
the times they lived in
why don't we start with Lee by some
experts aficionados and lovers of
Chinese poetry we'll call him the
greatest poet in all of Chinese history
some will say it was duel fool it's all
talk I wouldn't even dare to call one
prima Center Paris over the other but
these two they've almost become this Pat
answer to the question who were China's
two greatest poets let's do a brief
run-through of some of the milestones
and stories from Lee PI's life and then
finish off the episode with a reading of
a few of his poems he's also known as Li
ba the literary variants out on the
streets I hear most people calling him
Li Bai so I don't want to sound
pretentious or like some contrarian so
we'll stick with Li Bai he's also known
as Li tie by and lived 701 to 760 -
what's a 10 - Emperor suits own and
because they had that kanji thing going
on there
li Bai was beloved in Japan as well
being able to appreciate Chinese poetry
and calligraphy in particular those two
literary arts came natural to those
living in the Land of the Rising Sun
they called him REE Haku or di Haku in
Vietnam and Korea they loved him - their
pronunciation of his name sounded about
the same as in Chinese Leap I was born
far far away from China's central plain
in what is today the nation of
Kyrgyzstan in the Silk Road trading town
of tsuya this part of Central Asia
founded by some Sogdian merchants later
on became part of the tongue Empire and
served as a tong military outpost called
sway yet
the city today is less than an hour's
drive from the Kyrgyz capital of Bishkek
was lead by Han Chinese part Han Central
Asian why was he born with a heck out
there we don't know in like more ancient
history than we care to admit we can
only speculate and make the best guesses
we can
based on the evidence that survived the
last 12 centuries the legend of Li Bai
and since he ended up in su chuan when
he was 5 years old not far from Chengdu
in a place called Jiang yo there's a
leap by Memorial Hall there if you're
ever in the neighborhood 2 hours to the
northeast of Chengdu as a young in there
he exhibited amazing prospects talented
in all things including wushu martial
arts swordsmanship in particular there
were stories written of Li Bai not only
using his skills in the martial arts to
defend those being preyed upon by their
rougher and tougher betters but killing
some of these antagonists as well all
part of the early li Bai legend Li Bai
enthusiasts will tell you straight away
aside from the vast repository of
fabulous poems over a thousand one other
thing that defined him was well his
romanticism and absolute love of wine
he loved drinking getting drunk
composing poetry when he was blitzed and
even writing poems about the joys of
Chinese wine and did I mention man of
the people I indicated that ya leap I
was one of those types that you know
whatever he had in his pocket at the
time that's how generous he could be
with his friends hangers-on and those he
might meet on the road
he was no van-gogh unappreciated in his
own lifetime he was a star wherever he
went right on the spot leap I would
extemporaneously say or write one poem
and instantly the aficionados gathered
round knew this was the greatness they
aspired to in 725 leap by in his
mid-twenties left Sichuan and did the
first of what was to be several
stretches of wandering around China
anyone all over the country mostly
throughout the north and central part
and wherever he went he wrote poetry
that gives us a peek at what one might
expect to see in a century
China he wrote of the places he saw the
people he met or with whom he had
tearful farewells he began in Nanjing so
easily accessible from Sichuan via the
Yangtze River
despite the brilliant career in the
Imperial bureaucracy that was his for
the taking
leap I never bothered to take the civil
service exams and therefore denied
himself what could have been quite a
career as a Tong official he was never a
big fan of Confucius but he had read all
the classics and do them backwards and
forwards and was thoroughly educated in
this respect but as I said given his
personality that wasn't the life for a
guy like Lee PI he preferred to lean
pretty heavily in the direction of
Taoism instead one of the milestones and
Lee PI's early bio concerns the story
from 7:35 when his early wanderings
brought him to Shanxi Province a general
named quad Sulli was being tried in a
military court for something or other
and Lee by new Gua and was aware of his
reputation for honesty integrity and
always doing the right thing I read he
was a historian Christian anyway Li Bai
used his influence to speak to someone
and advocated on behalf of God so Yi and
so leap I was able to save this Tong
general from some uncertain future and
for doing quotes least such a solid like
he did much later on in 7:57 in the
throes of the unloosen rebellion li pi
is gonna find himself in hot water
facing execution by that time what say
ye was one of the leading Tong military
leaders and would ultimately lead the
dynasty to victory over the on Liu Shan
rebels we'll get to that later quad city
by that time was called the great
protector of the Tong dynasty and was
credited with saving the dynasty from a
real close call but when Li Bai got him
out of a jam and Xiang XI in the year
735 wards
he still had a whole slew of battles in
front of him later on during the period
of his wanderings that brought him to
easternmost Shandong li bai's legend
continued to grow there in the former
state of Lu he fell in with five other
Shan dongers all accomplished in varying
degrees in the literary and artistic
skills of the day and leap I became part
of this band of six who were known as
the cheese sheath ie the six idlers of
the bamboo Brook Zhu XI means bamboo
stream or brook and dyay
well e means ease leisure escape flee
withdraw from the world da means great
which presumes these six were a cut
above your average II sort of taken a
page out of the PlayBook of the former
seven sages of the bamboo grove of the
third century Li Bai and his five merry
friends all got together and had the
poetic equivalent of one big long
drunken jam session where everyone got
liquored up to the gills wallowed in
their beautiful natural surroundings and
produced poetry that was as good as it
got
and besides li bai's association with
this group later on du feu will write a
poem that showcased eight other
immortals of that same period and he
named Li Bai among this octet all poets
each one with one particular thing about
them that was particularly extraordinary
and he called them the Jill John Bosh in
the Eight Immortals of the wine-cup and
if that name doesn't say it all I'm sure
you can figure out what these literati
did in between bottomless cups of by
Jill anyway getting back to leap by his
big break I guess you could say came in
742 with the help of one of Emperor
Xuanzong sisters Princess Yeo Jun leap I
had gotten to know the princess and
educated as she was she knew talent when
she saw it
so after striking up this
friendship Princess Yeo Jun you Chen
Gong chul when she had the Shen song
Emperor's attention one day she went on
to rave about this poet of amazing
talent namely pi Shen song was suitably
intrigued just as joseph ii probably was
when his advisors first told him about
this amazing mozart from Salzburg so
Shen song was game and with the royal
princesses introduction leap I came to
the greatest city in the world perhaps
mid a century Chung on and just wowed
everyone I'm telling you it's not like
today where people communicate digitally
for everything for so many circumstances
and daily aristocratic and court life
whatever had to be said was often best
said in a short poem some of us
marvel at the ability of some artists
writers who can create one masterpiece
after another well so it was with Lee PI
in a society where you were judged by
your poetry skills Lee PI dazzled the
crowds some of his poems when people
heard them for the first time they knew
they were precious gems in Emperor Shen
song loved him there's a story about
some gala that Chen's home through to on
early PI and that the Emperor himself
grabbed the ladle from the soup tureen
or some spices or seasonings and
personally served Lee pie and not
everyone got their treatment Shen song
called for the establishment of a kind
of academic institution and he staffed
it with his most brilliant court
scholars and officials and in this
institution that came to be known as the
Hanlin Academy became the ultimate
authority for all matters related to the
Confucian classics poetry translations
and other things too and since all the
civil service exams and all budding
scholars had to pass were based on these
Confucian classics the hundley Academy
also acted as the organization
responsible for the questions and
correct answers shen song appointed li
bai to this Hanlon yen located in the
imperial capital of Chung on this was a
rather prestigious institution
throughout the centuries besides Li Bai
other notable members were the great
Tong poet by GE the great scholar and
statesman covered in CAHPS episode 71 o
yang Xiao Chun Tong quoi fun and tyre
and pay to name a few of the more famous
handling academy alums one of the things
Shen song liked about Li PI who you know
he had made a kind of unofficial tonk
court poet was that he made him so happy
with all the poems he wrote special just
for the Emperor and his number one
favorite concubine yang GUI Fei yeah
this was the 740s the Chi urine era the
best of the three eras that marked Shen
songs reign you know how in 1969 a lot
of people didn't like Yoko but John
wouldn't listen
well the shinsung Emperor had to go
through the same thing one contributed
to the breakup of the Beatles and the
other the fall of the Tong dynasty the
Emperor's closest advisers warned him of
yunkai Fay and her relatives but not
leap by he was always more than happy to
tell the Emperor what he wanted to hear
and wrote firm several nice poems that
celebrated young qui fais in some way a
career in the halls of power wasn't
without its risks even on a good day it
was a hotbed for factionalism and
backstabbing galore li Bai managed to
run afoul of no less a person than the
most powerful eunuch in Shandong skort
golly sure he was a holdover from the
would say 10 era and ended up becoming
Shen songs right and left hand man
the story goes leap by when summoned was
known to show up at the Imperial Palace
hammered and one time allowed the wine
to get the best of them the Emperor made
a remark to Cowley sure to go assist the
poet and removing
muddy boots sir you know something that
was rather insulting well golly sure
didn't like that but he complied of
course and soon after conspired with
young qui fais to have leap I accused of
something or other that was an insult to
the Emperor so after he was done
whispering to Shen song the next thing
you know the pie fell from grace and
received a penalty of banishment from
the court Shen song was heartbroken to
see one of his court favorites leave and
it said he loaded li Bai up with all
these parting gifts so after this stint
and Chung on li Bai hit the road again
and headed towards Shandong this was the
time when he met doofah 7:44 and 7:45
they met in law yang and these two
greatest of all the greatest poets in
Chinese history became friends for the
remainder of their days and although
they only met in person a few times they
kept up a friendship and as I mentioned
last episode they exchanged many poems
there are about a dozen poems from do
food alley pie that survived down to our
day and a few from Li Bai to du feu they
kept up an epic correspondence like
Sartre and Simone de Beauvoir or
Catherine the Great and Voltaire when du
feu met lead by ten years of senior Lee
by was already a big star and renowned
throughout the land for his work not to
mention his wild and crazy' reputation
wine was his God and many a great poem
was composed out of the many cups he
would consume in a single sitting like
all the lives of these great tongue
poets of this era li bai had to survive
the on lu shan rebellion that began
december 755 during the shakeout when
shen song had to flee the capital
suddenly after it fell to the rebels
during the power vacuum li bai back the
wrong prince not the one who became the
next emperor suzong
and for putting
chips on the wrong horse Levi once again
found himself in a spot of trouble and
this was when general court say he came
to his rescue and Gottlieb I out of that
Jam this was in 757 you know when quad
city passed in 781 aged 83 or 84 the
legend says that the Jade Emperor
himself looked upon quad city and saw
what a good decent principled person he
had always been that he walked the walk
his whole life and had done so much for
the tongue ruling house and for China
he declared quad see from that point
forward to be the god of wealth and
happiness so leap I escaped the death
penalty thanks to quad city but was
banished to a town out in western guacho
to a place called yelling now Li Bai
took his sweet time getting to this
farthest edge of China proper and guacho
and all along the route from law yang to
western china leap I wrote poems that
gave us some beautiful imagery of these
rural parts of China these empty spaces
in between the cities by 759 well he was
having a gay old time stopping here and
there and taking in the local sights and
meeting other interesting people before
he reached his place of banishment and
Yellin leap I had received a pardon from
the Emperor suzong who had already
stepped into his father's shoes after
Shandong had to flee to su chuan to
escape the clear and present danger
caused by the an lushan rebellion so
with his royal pardon in hand
li Bai went back to doing what he did
best wandering around China through
guacho Jiang Shi onwe and again in
Nanjing stopping wherever he pleased
always composing poetry and enjoying his
wine he finally ended up living with a
relative and the town of dong 2 in on
way and there he passed away in 762 at
the age of 61 and if you visit down to
County today Jess
south of my on Shan you can visit that
Thai by mu or Li by tomb the great poets
final resting place there's a version of
li bai's death that says he was on a
boat drunk as can be and feeling no pain
and fell into the river trying to
embrace her perhaps toast the reflection
of the moon on the water no one got that
on video so hard to determine the
veracity of that legend the an Lucien
rebellion still at another year to go
before it was finally snuffed out the
Tong dynasty continued on for another
hundred and thirty four more years to
907 but pretty much by the time the
rebellion ended it was never the same
again and all the experts and scholars
have divided li bai's poetry up into all
these chapters in his life the periods
when he was travelling here or there
when he was hanging out with the six
idlers of the bamboo brook or working
for the Emperor on the road to get along
let's read a few of his poems his five
and seven character per line quatrains
or what he's best remembered for but
throughout his life his compositions ran
the whole gamut of popular styles of
poetry that we discussed in the first
three episodes of the series he didn't
invent any styles he wasn't known as a
great innovator li bai's greatness lie
in writing poetry and all the styles of
the day ancient and modern and producing
work of such quality that in his own
time in the eighth century clear through
to today people went crazy about his
poetry let's start with one of his most
famous poems
it's called thoughts on a still night
genius ooh anyone that went through the
Chinese version of the K through 12
regiment surely had to memorize this one
Tianjin mean yet Guang Yi sure D Shang
Shuang Cheeto Wang Ming yer dito soukous
young moon like before my bed perhaps
for
ston the ground lift my head and see the
moon lower my head and I miss home and
here's one of the poems he wrote for
Hmong Quran someone will look at in part
six and one of the most beloved of
tongue poets from this time it's called
sending off Hmong Quran at yellow crane
tower I've been there many times
Huang hello yellow crane tower if you
ever visit Wuhan don't miss it
the poem was written by Lee by as he
watched his friends boat from the top of
this magnificent tower as it sailed away
on the Yangtze River in Chinese as poem
is called Huang hello
so among Harinder Guang Ling Guran
sheets of Wong hollow yen Hassan ya Xiao
Yun Chao goof arranging become Jin Wei
Jin Chun Cheung tin Chi Leo my old
friend bids farewell to the West at
yellow crane tower in the third month
flowers in the mist he leaves for yang
Joe distant reflection of the lone sail
on the edge of an emerald emptiness all
I see is the Yangtze River flowing as if
on the verge of heaven and here is one
of li bai's poems to do fool this is
another and the most popular genre of
poems were one bids farewell to another
person or place this one's called a poem
sent to doufu below shacho City
Chacho Cheung sha Zhi tofu walleye Jing
her shirt gar war shacho Chung Chung be
on Youku Xu Zhu Shi Lian Chu Zhang Lu
Jobu could say chika come for qing
surgeon raw entry how dung Jean and Jung
what is the purpose of my coming here
high before me
cha-cha city beside the city ancient
trees the sunset unites with autumn
sounds the low whine cannot make me
drunk the songs of Chi cannot mend my
empty feelings I think of you as the
water of the when river flowing
immensely and mightily south here's one
more on them we'll call it a day this
poem by Li Bai is called herring a
bamboo flute and a spring night in law
young twin yellow Chung Wendy Shui gr u
D on fishing
Sandra twin foam on lure Chung so ya Chu
Zhang wen Giulio her and Buchi gu yen
Ching from whose house is the hidden
flutes tune coming the sound penetrates
the spring breeze filling law yang city
in the middle of the Nocturne I hear the
sound of a snapped willow who would not
begin to think of home so that's just a
small taste of leap I just an
amuse-bouche to perhaps give those of
you who never heard of I'm a drop of
inspiration they made me go check out
more please refer to the show notes for
links to several nice translations to
his poetry and of doufu as well if you
only read it in translation well like I
said no two translations are the same
side by side they look similar but
there's no one single authoritative
definitive version of these great poets
work you really have to drink it
straight from the tap in the original
Chinese to get the full flavor and enjoy
all the subtleties for those of you
looking for a nice non-intimidating
place to start try dr. james holmes new
one called an introduction to tong
poetry I'll put a link to that book in
the show notes he's written several
books you might be interested in as far
as tong poetry goes you could give you a
much more in-depth
analytical intro than your humble
narrator next episode we'll look at the
life of do fool and read some of his
poems and as you'll see he had quite a
different life experience from Lee by
one of the great party animals from
Chinese history doufu didn't get to
enjoy half the fondly by head so please
don't give up the ship just yet okay
let's whine things up for now this is La
Silla Montgomery coming to you once
again just like last time and probably
next time as well from the city of Los
Angeles here in the state of confusion
I'll be waiting for you in two weeks
same bat-time same bat-channel for
another poetic episode of the china
history podcast
you